ah ba nous en I got an interesting email
from a patreon supporter named a meal
shout out to a meal um it may be
interesting to me for different reasons
than it's interesting for you in the
audience or maybe not for the same
reasons she had for writing into me so
Emil writes I was thinking about my
personal struggles with veganism dealing
with my sister and her children who are
still eating animals and why it's so
hard for her and especially the kids and
her husband to go vegan I've thought
about this many times before and already
came to the conclusion as you've talked
about new other videos I believe that
for some people who have horrid lives
she has hard in quotation marks hard
lives like working mothers and fathers
it can be difficult to go vegan simply
because they have very little time and
energy to educate and teach themselves
about how to live vegan how to
transition to a fully vegan lifestyle
here's a pause now maybe in this case
she's correct maybe that really is the
problem is that it's hard but really to
say that presumes that they already have
the intention that they truly have the
intention that they truly the aspiration
become vegan but can't do it because
it's hard and that's very very rarely
the case it could be the case here it
could be you know someone who's in that
predicament but for me it is much less
often that I encounter someone who's
really dealing with hardship hardship
that prevents them from coming vegan
it's much more common that I meet
someone who has a justification of their
hardship that prevents them from being
so in their own minds that have a
justification and that justification has
become part of their identity part of
how they perceive themselves part of
their own moral system other perceive
the world and it's often more difficult
to let go of the justification than it
is to let go of the thing being
justified right now yet in this analysis
this reflects my own personality that I
am the type of person who never misses
the taste of bacon right to me that's
not compelling or meaningful I never
missed the taste of you know ice cream
made out of cow's milk that's that's not
me but the kind of justification that
made these foods and for instance made
something like leather a meaningful part
of your life maybe a meaningful part of
your family your tradition your culture
those justifications I can see them
being much much more powerful because
again reflecting our personality then
the actual you know experience and I'm
going to use an example here that is
much less sensual has nothing to do with
food or fancy leather shoes or
what-have-you but you know I meet a lot
of people who one way or another are
attached to let's say a justification
for why they never went to college
within everyone's university or in other
cases a justification for what they
dropped out of university or a
justification for why their whole life
would have been better if only they
could have gone to university and then
on the flip side I met all kinds of
people maybe people have PhDs who
absolutely have to insist on a
justification of how wonderful their
university experience was and will
attack and criticize anyone who doesn't
see it that way someone who's a threat
to their sense of the esteem the
establishment should be hauled in or
what that educational process and the
degree is supposed to mean to them and
of course there are all kinds of other
combinations meet people who did
completely you know you did graduate
from university but where they're
attached to a justification that nobody
learns anything in university and this
they don't see it as just their own
experience they see it as kind of
universal explanation again you may not
have had those experiences or met those
kinds of people wherever you're watching
this to me that's a real example of how
that that sense of clinging to
justification for something in your own
life not necessarily a matter of good
and evil not necessarily a matter of
self-indulgence versus self-discipline
obviously not a matter of Health versus
unhealthy um I've seen so many cases
with that's really part of the bedrock
of someone's personality
and they can't part with it you know
maybe it has to do with the jobs you got
or the jobs you didn't get there may be
all sorts of experiences that have
embittered you since you went to
university or since you dropped out of
university as the case may be where your
evaluation of what it means what's good
and bad about University just becomes
this fetish within your life and you may
not realize how attached you're so in
that same way I don't know maybe Emile
you're writing into me and really the
problem is hardship but maybe instead
it's the justification of hardship
because you know look I remember what it
was like to take a chicken and cut the
meat off the chicken you know what I
mean just deal with the skeleton of the
chicken that's so much time I remember
what was like to cook a turkey you know
before I was vegan and you could you
come up with justification for these
things right I never took the feathers
off a chicken I never did at that level
and never gutted a you know whole animal
but you put in so much work to make a
turkey even if it's just for yourself
let alone to make a turkey for your kids
of course your kids don't appreciate it
kids are never refined palate or
anything them it's just more food
putting in 12 hours or something to to
prepare these these different meat
dishes and yes maybe there's the
justification in terms of the violence
you know the animal being killed and the
ecology and the other headings but I've
got to say just the filth just the labor
just the use of your time and money and
dealing with the filthy bloody bones
that are left over I mean you forget
that as a vegan it's like we're at the
end of cooking a meal in your kitchen
you have a filthy putrid mess that you
have to worry about spreading contagious
disease you know having to spray
disinfectant and wipe that down just how
awful it is deal with that I mean I knew
I knew First Nations people so your
First Nations American India and what do
you want to say you know Korean the
Ghibli people when they were taking that
time to go out and hunt a beaver or hunt
a moose and kill this wild animal
and then take the fur off it and take
the skin off it and chop up the skull
maybe you know they would eat the meat
out of the cheeks of the animal and all
this then the tongue and you know all
this labor and again they're partly
doing themselves but it's always this
thing about passing the next generation
right and then smoking it what you want
to say barbecuing yet nothing that'd
smoke a lot of the meat then I was
smoking and barbecuing this meat and
giving it to the children and the
children camp again the children can't
really appreciate it and you know
children can appreciate a chocolate bar
but you know um people get into a really
deep kind of justification honestly I
think eat off and again I have observed
this observe this and many parents and
in many people because you know if you
were if you were single if you didn't
have a husband or a wife or kids you
wouldn't put in 12 hours to preparing a
turkey for Thanksgiving table
- eat a moose go through the
unbelievable again the filth the blood
the bones you know and at the end you
fill up a whole garbage bag with the
bones ever even with a turkey or a big
chicken you know just awful so people I
think that people are more attached to
the justifications than they are to the
thing itself that this is part of being
a good parent this I mean for First
Nations for American Indians you can
really imagine that that for many of
them they think that's integral to
passing on their identity it's integral
to proving that they're not assimilated
that they can still go out and kill and
eat a moose you know that they can still
go in and trap beaver and they know how
to roast beaver I can sympathize I
understand the powerful symbolic value
of that and I don't know I didn't grow
up Christian but dealt lists for
Christians something an American
Christian the Thanksgiving feast or the
Christmas feast these religious
occasions and all the hours put into the
the meat there's a justification there
right it has to mean something it has to
have some kind of meaning because if
it's not if we get detached if we can
just release our grip on that delusion
then so many things in our own life or
reveal the
meaningless and such a waste of our own
time and energy and money and work
trying to prove to ourselves in our own
lives as meaningful and trying to prove
to the next generation trying to pass it
on that all disappears in a vapor right
so yeah it's hard but I don't know if
it's hard for the reasons you're
suggesting here for Genevieve
you should have showed it Genevieve
Genevieve the sport on patreon show
diginity for Genevieve I remember she
talked about the fact that when she was
younger she puts so much time into
preparing gourmet food for her husband
and for her kids
and again of course the kids don't know
the difference especially when they're
younger right and involve things like
turkeys forms of meat that that have a
lot of work put into them and then in
have in committing the veganism she did
relatively recently forget a couple
years ago you're not just recognizing
something but ecology or the suffering
of the animals you're recognizing
something with the symbolic value of
labour and culture within your own
family and within your own life over so
many years right so letting go of those
justifications and in her case I don't
think she's religious at all it's
nothing like Christianity or those other
issues but still you can just be
attached you can be justification just
in terms of the cultural snobbery
involved which is very real which is you
know that sense of a lot of us feel it I
don't know though some of you were born
vegan most of us can remember like most
of us before we were vegan you know oh I
would never give my child this crappy
hot dog out of a plastic packet no no no
I'm going to take the time and give my
child some high-quality meat or
high-quality steak you know there's all
there all these levels of snobbery and
kind of false health information about
trying to give your child the best or
something good enough or something
sophisticated enough and taking the time
whether you're cooking that yourself or
buying it in a boutique you know whether
through your child your husband or your
wife or whatever you know and yeah
there's a there's a kind of cracking
realization that all of that was not
just morally wrong
but profoundly pointless so yeah but
anyway I agree with you in principle for
many working mothers and fathers it's
hard but that's what I think is hard is
parting ways with those justifications
be they cultural religious matters of
personal identity tradition or just
sheer snobbery that you feel you're the
kind of parent who would never feed your
child you know bacon bits but who would
feed them you know cordon bleu you know
would Rivero you know yeah it's a lot to
let go of
same thing with leather obviously the
snobbery surrounding luxury goods in
leather anyway so I continue this is not
again I've mentioned the opening in what
I find interesting about this is maybe
not what she finds interesting about
this
so Amelia's message continues that made
me think about how it would be so
helpful for these kind of people to have
a community which they could reach out
to and an organization which offers
volunteers to maybe help her on the
house and make it easier for them to
transition to the vegan lifestyle
answering questions helping to cook
vegan food etc okay now what you're both
here
explains why Emile connects this way to
the issue and I assume why she connects
to my own past video my vegan manifesto
the the video on community right so next
paragraph she says quote my mother was
Jehovah's Witness and I have experienced
myself how great the support is from
those people to other people in the
community so that made me think of how
great it'd be for people surely with
going vegan if there were an
organization that could help non vegans
the transition to being in lifestyle
period my question you is how could such
an organization be established so I have
actually seen that and if possible do
you think such an organization for
vegans could ever become a somewhat
close community like for instance the
Jehovah's Witnesses right so obviously
these are issues I care about they're
talked about in on community a video
I've now have translated into twelve
languages I think um so that videos
message still matters to me in a fashion
about it but there are two problems here
one is love and the other is money I do
know of an organization that allegedly
did just that in Victoria where it is
Canada the city I was living in Canada
and it fell apart because it's the usual
thing small number of people organize it
and they started fighting with each
other and there was a split between this
guy who was the leader and this other
guy wanted to be a leader and they
didn't like each other and then one of
the guys left he moved to Vancouver and
then the whole thing fell apart
when I got there their website was still
up but it was no longer responding to
emails and I asked people about and they
said hello don't ask these to different
factions hated each other and tore it
apart but there was a vegan foundation
allegedly doing exactly what you're
describing watchdog about look I got
experience in Buddhism I got experience
in ecology I got experience in different
kind of walks of life to have the level
of love to open your door and let a
stranger come into your home and do a
cooking demo for you and the other hand
for the person doing the cooking demo
someone come into your kitchen
come go into another person's kitchen
and show them how to cook some vegan
dishes it's so much easier to make that
happen as a for-profit business than as
a charity that's a fascinating example
of a function where everyone would be
more comfortable if it's a service
that's bought and paid for then if it's
a relationship like church to flock
right there are relationships of
authority there if it's a client paying
someone to come and do a cooking demo
right then the person in the home the
person learning they're in charge
they've paid their money even they maybe
they just paid $50 to have this vegan
cook come and do a demo
fine I think in Western culture people
would handle that but if it's a charity
the other way if the person doing doing
the teacher is in a position of
authority they're not being paid it's
not a client's not a client holistic
relationship it's very very different
now in a religious context those are
exactly the issues that are taken care
of in a religion like Jehovah's Witness
or in some forms of Buddhism
well-organized forms of Buddhism the
relationship of authority is overt so
it's already taken care of so
psychologically
people you know people wouldn't be in
the church if they didn't accept that
religion of authority and the
relationships of love the commitments I
mean whether it's a completely abstract
religious sense of love or commitments
to the community on the basis of some
shared Creed shared identity there are
types of love there that bind people
together also and in veganism we ain't
got that and it's quite likely we never
will we never will have them somebody
wrote to me on Twitter recently asking
about having a central organization for
veganism instead of having fragments and
my reply which is a you know spur of the
moment why I said no the future of
veganism is not going to be
centralization what we need are more
fragments of higher quality
we need to 320p CRMs with two three or
twenty lawsuits
we can't just have one piece erm we need
others doing other things it's just in
the past regret of a piece erm an
organization like PCRM just specialised
in leather we'd have another one just
specialised in dairy whatever you know
we could have different different issues
being taken on by different
organizations but we're never going to
have a Catholic Church of veganism and
if we did have formal organizations like
the Catholic Church I think they would
be even more fragmentary they've even
more narrow because they'd be trying to
narrow it down to the point where you
meet that threshold it's a very good
test where you meet that threshold where
you would be loving and trusting and
respectful enough and have enough of a
relationship thority to open the door to
your home and have someone come in and
do a cooking demo for you for free so
there are some aspects of the cause that
are well addressed by nonprofits by
charities but political organizations or
even by religious organizations but
there are other aspects of the cause
that are handled much better by a
for-profit company and honestly what
you're talking about here having someone
come into your house and talk you
through this the same way you can pay
someone to do a you know you can pay
someone to come and
you a consultation about redecorating
your home all right if you pay someone
to do that if I I'm the client I'm going
to pay you $100 to come in and do an
evaluation and make a checklist make
suggestions how to redecorate my
apartment okay
I'm completely comfortable because I'm
the paying customer if I'm not if you're
doing it for free if I'm beholden to you
if you're coming in because you know
you're coming to tell me how to
redecorate my house because we're
members of the same Buddhist temple or
something see already how that's a
little bit weird what if it's somebody
who's not invited at all what if it's
someone who invites themselves over to
tell you how to redecorate your
apartment to tell you how to change your
lifestyle who tells you how you should
eat what's healthy and what's not
interesting huh but yeah sure it would
be wonderful if in future there were
ever an organization or community within
veganism remotely as as tight-knit as
what the Jehovah's Witnesses have but if
that happens it's not going to be a
broad Church for all vegans it'll be
some group of vegans who have much more
in common much higher levels of mutual
respect mutual trust and a sense of a
common mission and objective otherwise
as I've been saying for years veganism
is fractious and fragmentary and what we
need are more high-quality fragments and
I hope we can have some level of mutual
respect between those fragments where
people can look across the divide at one
another and recognize hey maybe we don't
have so much in common politically maybe
we don't have so much in common
I don't know morally ethically in other
ways but we're all vegan and we will
fundamentally share the vision of a
world without industrialized animal
agriculture we all fundamentally share
the motivation of doing our small part
to try to abolish you know factory
farming and to cease to be a society
where human beings feed on the corpses
of millions of animals ah ba Liu Yin
[Music]
you
ah ba Lu Ciel